In the healthcare profession,
we often see and hear things that really impact us.
Now we're going to talk to healthcare professionals
to see what they think about loss and trauma and grief
and how it impacts them,
and how we can help improve that impact.
(ambient music)
Working in a pediatric emergency department,
there are a lot of sad cases that you see,
and death and a lot of things
that you kind of have to process.
But specifically, the one that I can think of
was a few months ago, we had a six year old girl
who came in via Life Flight.
So she came in through a helicopter
in critical condition because she was hit by a car.
And,
when she went to cardiac arrest
I was performing compressions.
And it was a really difficult time
because I so badly wanted her to live
and just immediately get better.
But unfortunately, her injuries were too severe
so she did pass, and I experienced
probably the most profound loss I've experienced
while working in healthcare so far.
And that was definitely something that was difficult for me.
But it was nice because I had my team there to help me.
And afterwards, something that helps me cope
is to call my family.
And I just journaled and did self-care
and that kind of helped me heal from that.
But it was difficult.
The first time that I had to perform CPR,
I lost that patient.
And I don't know,
I mean, the first experience I would hope that when I do it,
the patient would survive.
But I did CPR, there was another person with me,
but we performed CPR and he couldn't survive.
And just to pronounce the time of his death,
I had to like see his pulse and the monitor,
and I was too scared to even say
that the patient is not alive at that time.
So yeah, I think that in a way,
I got very scared to do that.
But after a few more CPR procedures
when I did revive a patient, I felt good about it.
But in that moment,
I felt like I was to blame at that second.
Yes, actually, unfortunately,
one of my previous colleagues,
she actually passed away at work.
So that was something that just hit us very hard
because she was like, I would say,
like the pillar in the clinic.
So she is the one, the glue that held everyone together.
And she made a huge impact on the center
and in patients' lives.
So that was something that we had to work through.
But it was nice having each other, like as a little family.
(ambient music)
Mentorship is very important.
When we are in like a team based situation
or a care model, it's very important for us
to be able to rely on others
to learn what we don't know
and be able to get support when we need
instead of being looked down at for not knowing something.
So in that way, I think I've always seeked to find
good mentors and someone who can support me
in that journey of something that I don't know.
I'm never scared to ask for help,
to ask them that I don't know this,
can you help me with this?
So in a way, whenever I find myself overwhelmed
or when I find myself having negative thoughts,
I make sure to voice them and seek help
and ask for anyone to just
lend their voice or even just help me navigate that.
I just do journaling and skincare
and I try to listen to music and wind down after work,
and call my family just to help me decompress
from a high stress environment,
and the emotional, I guess,
repercussions of working in healthcare.
So thankfully I have a very strong support system.
So I realized instead of me just bottling my emotions
that it's very important for me
to speak to someone about how I'm feeling.
Even if it's good, bad, stressed, it's good to let it out
instead of just bottling those emotions.
(ambient music)
I would say yes, just a lot of my colleagues
during the pandemic overall,
a lot of people were getting sick.
We had staff shortages, we were we working nonstop.
People would think that, oh, there's a pandemic going on,
we're not going to be as busy.
But it was the complete opposite.
And on top of that, we also had to learn
how to change our policies according to the pandemic.
And so I would see a lot of my colleagues
feeling defeated in a way.
And that would affect me
especially being in the leadership role.
All the time,
because I work in a pediatric emergency department
in a level one trauma center.
And there are definitely some difficult cases,
some critical cases, and I've seen people crying.
I've seen attending physicians saying they need a drink
and they can't wait to get home.
And I've seen people leave the emergency department
altogether just because it's emotionally exhausting
and they're burnt out
from the constant trauma that they face.
Yeah, I think, as I said,
the ones where I had my friends with me at that time,
so yeah, since I was with them also.
But yeah, I've witnessed them
going through the same thing too.
(ambient music)